[omitted: characters 0-30357 of the full extracted text]

rement that applicable large employers subject to the ESRP
report certain information related to offers of health
insurance coverage), or the date the return is filed, if later.

                             EFFECTIVE DATE

    The provision is effective with respect to returns which
are due after December 31, 2024.

[GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]

                     IV. BUDGET EFFECTS OF THE BILL


               A. Committee Estimate of Budgetary Effects

    In compliance with clause 3(d) of rule XIII of the Rules of
the House of Representatives, the following statement is made
concerning the effects on the budget of the bill, H.R. 3801, as
reported.
    The estimated effect of the bill on Federal fiscal year
budget receipts is a loss of less than $500,000 for the period
2023-2033.

B. Statement Regarding New Budget Authority and Tax Expenditures Budget
                               Authority

    In compliance with clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules
of the House of Representatives, the Committee states that the
bill involves no new or increased budget authority. The
Committee states further that the bill involves no new or
increased tax expenditures.

      C. Cost Estimate Prepared by the Congressional Budget Office

    The Committee has requested but not received from the
Director of the Congressional Budget Office a statement as to
whether this bill contains any new budget authority, spending
authority, credit authority, or an increase or decrease in
revenues or tax expenditures.

     V. OTHER MATTERS TO BE DISCUSSED UNDER THE RULES OF THE HOUSE


          A. Committee Oversight Findings and Recommendations

    With respect to clause 3(c)(1) of rule XIII of the Rules of
the House of Representatives, the Committee made findings and
recommendations that are reflected in this report.

        B. Statement of General Performance Goals and Objectives

    With respect to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of the Rules of
the House of Representatives, the Committee advises that the
bill does not authorize funding, so no statement of general
performance goals and objectives is required.

              C. I

[omitted: characters 32517-86951 of the full extracted text]
