59–006
118TH CONGRESS
REPORT
"
!
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
2d Session
118–930
TO AMEND TITLES 46 AND 49, UNITED STATES CODE, TO STREAMLINE
THE ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW PROCESS FOR MAJOR PROJECTS, AND
FOR OTHER PURPOSES
DECEMBER 19, 2024.—Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the State
of the Union and ordered to be printed
Mr. GRAVES of Missouri, from the Committee on Transportation
and Infrastructure, submitted the following
R E P O R T
[To accompany H.R. 3316]
[Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]
The Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, to whom
was referred the bill (H.R. 3316) to amend titles 46 and 49, United
States Code, to streamline the environmental review process for
major projects, and for other purposes, having considered the same,
reports favorably thereon without amendment and recommends
that the bill do pass.
CONTENTS
Page
Purpose of Legislation .............................................................................................
Background and Need for Legislation ....................................................................
Hearings ...................................................................................................................
Legislative History and Consideration ..................................................................
Committee Votes ......................................................................................................
Committee Oversight Findings and Recommendations ........................................
New Budget Authority and Tax Expenditures ......................................................
Congressional Budget Office Cost Estimate ..........................................................
Performance Goals and Objectives .........................................................................
Duplication of Federal Programs ............................................................................
Congressional Earmarks, Limited Tax Benefits, and Limited Tariff Benefits ...
Federal Mandates Statement .................................................................................
Preemption Clarification .........................................................................................
Advisory Committee Statement ..............................................................................
Applicability to Legislative Branch ........................................................................
Section-by-Section Analysis of the Legislation ......................................................
Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported .....................................
1 23 U.S.C. § 139.
2 23 U.S.C. § 139(a)(9)(A).
3 23 U.S.C. § 139(a)(7)(A).
4 23 U.S.C. § 139(a)(5)(A).
5 23 U.S.C. § 139(a)(5)(B).
6 CBO, PUBLIC SPENDING ON TRANSP. AND WATER INFRASTRUCTURE, 1956 to 2017 (2018),
available at https://www.cbo.gov/system/files/2018-10/54539-Infrastructure.pdf.
PURPOSE OF LEGISLATION
The purpose of H.R. 3316 is to amend titles 46 and 49, United
States Code, to streamline the environmental review process for
major projects, and for other purposes.
BACKGROUND AND NEED FOR LEGISLATION
This legislation applies 23 U.S.C. § 139—Efficient environmental
reviews for project decision-making and One Federal Decision to
ports, pipeline safety, and airport and aviation infrastructure
projects. 23 U.S.C. § 139 generally requires Federal reviews for cer-
tain projects to proceed in a more streamlined, effective, and rea-
sonably-timed manner without unnecessary complexity or delays.1
The only projects currently covered under that statute are "any
highway
project,
public
transportation
capital
project,
or
multimodal project that, if implemented as proposed by the project
sponsor, would require approval by any operating administration or
secretarial office within the Department of Transportation." 2 More
specifically, a major project covered under H.R. 3316 is defined as:
(A) In general.—The term "major project" means a project for
which—
(i) multiple permits, approvals, reviews, or studies are required
under a Federal law other than the National Environmental Policy
Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. § 4321 et seq.);
(ii) the project sponsor has identified the reasonable availability
of funds sufficient to complete the project;
(iii) the project is not a covered project (as defined in section
41001 of the FAST Act (42 U.S.C. § 4370m)); and
(iv)
(I) the head of the lead agency has determined that an
environmental impact statement is required; or
(II) the head of the lead agency has determined that an
environmental assessment is required, and the project
sponsor requests that the project be treated as a major
project.3
The "environmental review process" means "the process for pre-
paring for a project an environmental impact statement, environ-
mental assessment, categorical exclusion, or other document pre-
pared under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42
U.S.C. § 4321 et seq.)" (NEPA).4 This process also includes the re-
view and completion of any environmental permit, approval, re-
view, or study required for a project under any Federal law, other
than NEPA.5
According to the Congressional Budget Office, the United States
spends over $400 billion per year on infrastructure, which illus-
trates the vast number of projects that potentially go through the
NEPA process.6 NEPA is frequently used to delay or stop crucial
infrastructure growth, including critical safety and maintenance
upgrades to airports, ports, waterways and pipeline-related
7 National Environmental Policy Act Implementing Regulations Revisions, 86 Fed. Reg. 55,757
(Oct. 7, 2021).
8 Update to the Regulations Implementing the Procedural Provisions of the National Environ-
mental Policy Act, 85 Fed. Reg. 43,304, (July 16, 2020).
projects.7 For example, the NEPA process averages 7.72 years for
the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), which include airport
and aviation projects.8 Therefore, expanding 23 U.S.C. § 139 to
port, pipeline safety, and airport and aviation projects will help en-
sure that these infrastructure projects move forward in a timely
and efficient manner.
HEARINGS
For the purposes of rule XIII, clause 3(c)(6)(A) of the 118th Con-
gress, the following hearings were used to develop or consider H.R.
3316:
On Wednesday, February 1, 2023, the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure held a hearing entitled, "The State of
Transportation Infrastructure and Supply Chain Challenges." The
hearing provided an opportunity for Members of the Committee to
discuss the current state of our Nation's transportation infrastruc-
ture, the implementation of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs
Act (IIJA) (P.L. 117–58) and receive updates on North American
supply chain challenges. Members received testimony from Mr.
Chris Spear, President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) at Amer-
ican Trucking Associations; Mr. Ian Jefferies, President and CEO
at the Association of American Railroads (AAR); Mr. Jeff Firth,
President of Hamilton Construction on behalf of Associated General
Contractors of America (AGC); Mr. Roger Guenther, Executive Di-
rector, Port Houston, and Mr. Greg Regan, President of the Trans-
portation Trades Department, AFL–CIO (TTD). The witnesses tes-
tified about the need to address supply chain issues, including per-
mitting issues.
On March 28, 2023, the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Mari-
time Transportation held a hearing entitled, "Maritime Transpor-
tation Supply Chain Issues." At the hearing Members received tes-
timony from Mr. Bud Darr, Executive Vice President, MSC Group
On behalf of the World Shipping Council, Mr. Matthew Leech,
President and CEO, Ports America, Mr. William H. "Buddy" Allen,
President and CEO, American Cotton Shippers Association, and
Mr. Mario Cordero, Executive Director, Port of Long Beach, Cali-
fornia. This hearing examined the maritime supply chain, includ-
ing streamlining Federal actions.
LEGISLATIVE HISTORY AND CONSIDERATION
H.R. 3316 was introduced in the United States House of Rep-
resentatives on May 15, 2023, by Mr. Crawford of Arkansas and re-
ferred to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
Within the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, H.R.
3316 was referred to the Subcommittee on Aviation, the Sub-
committee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, and the
Subcommittee on Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials.
The Subcommittee on Aviation, the Subcommittee on Coast Guard
and Maritime Transportation, and the Subcommittee on Railroads,
Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials were discharged from further
consideration of H.R. 3316 on May 23, 2023.
The Committee considered H.R. 3316 on May 23, 2023, and or-
dered the measure to be reported to the House with a favorable
recommendation, without amendment, by voice vote.
The following amendments were offered:
An amendment to H.R. 3316, offered by Mr. Garamendi (046)
(#9A); Page 7, after line 6, insert the following: SEC. 5. PROGRAM
FOR ELIMINATING DUPLICATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL RE-
VIEWS. Section 330 of title 23, United States Code, is amended—
(1) by striking subsection (k); and (2) by redesignating subsection
(l) as subsection (k).; was WITHDRAWN.
An amendment to H.R. 3316, offered by Mr. Garamendi (047)
(#9B); Page 7, after line 6, insert the following: SEC. 5. PROGRAM
FOR ELIMINATING DUPLICATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL RE-
VIEWS. Section 330(l) of title 23, United States Code, is amend-
ed— (1) in subparagraph (A) by striking "; and" and inserting a
semicolon; (2) by redesignating subparagraph (B) as subparagraph
(C); and (3) by inserting after subparagraph (A) the following: "(B)
an eligible airport-related project (as such term is defined in sec-
tion 40117(a) of title 49); and".; was WITHDRAWN.
COMMITTEE VOTES
Clause 3(b) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives requires each committee report to include the total number of
votes cast for and against on each record vote on a motion to report
and on any amendment offered to the measure or matter, and the
names of those members voting for and against.
No recorded votes were requested during consideration of H.R.
3316.
COMMITTEE OVERSIGHT FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
With respect to the requirements of clause 3(c)(1) of rule XIII of
the Rules of the House of Representatives, the Committee's over-
sight findings and recommendations are reflected in this report.
NEW BUDGET AUTHORITY AND TAX EXPENDITURES
Clause 3(c)(2) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House of Represent-
atives does not apply where a cost estimate and comparison pre-
pared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office under sec-
tion 402 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 has been timely
submitted prior to the filing of the report and is included in the re-
port. Such a cost estimate is included in this report.
CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE COST ESTIMATE
With respect to the requirement of clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII of
the Rules of the House of Representatives and section 402 of the
Congressional Budget Act of 1974, the Committee has received the
enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 3316 from the Director of the Con-
gressional Budget Office:
Summary: On May 23, 2023, the House Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure considered multiple pieces of legislation.
This document provides estimates for 12 bills that were ordered re-
ported.
The bills would, among other things, direct the Department of
Transportation (DOT) or the Federal Maritime Commission to:
the resiliency of the supply chain and revise the permitting process
for certain port, airport, and pipeline projects, with the goal of ac-
celerating approval;
that can travel on the Interstate highways; and
the safety and efficiency of domestic transportation systems.
Estimated Federal cost: The bills' estimated budgetary effects are
shown in Table 1. This cost estimate does not include any effects
of interaction among the bills. If all 12 bills were combined and en-
acted as a single piece of legislation, the effects could be different
from the sum of the separate estimates, although CBO expects that
any differences would be small. The bills' costs fall within budget
function 400 (transportation).
TABLE 1.—ESTIMATED BUDGETARY EFFECTS OF THE SUPPLY CHAIN LEGISLATION
By fiscal year, millions of dollars—
2023–
CHANGES IN SPENDING SUBJECT TO APPROPRIATION
H.R. 1500, Intelligent Transportation Integration Act:
Estimated Authorization .................................................
Estimated Outlays ..........................................................
H.R. 1836, Ocean Shipping Reform Implementation Act of
2023:
Estimated Authorization .................................................
Estimated Outlays ..........................................................
CBO estimates that H.R. 915, H.R. 2948, H.R. 3013, H.R. 3316, H.R. 3318, H.R. 3365, H.R. 3372, H.R. 3395, and H.R. 3447, would each
increase spending subject to appropriation by less than $500,000 in every year and over the 2023–2028 period.
CBO estimates that H.R. 3316, H.R. 3317, and H.R. 3365 would each affect direct spending by less than $500,000 in every year and over
the 2023–2033 period.
Basis of estimate: For this estimate, CBO assumes that the bills
will be enacted near the end of fiscal year 2023 and that the au-
thorized and estimated amounts will be appropriated each year.
Outlays for discretionary programs are estimated based on histor-
ical spending patterns for similar programs.
As discussed below, one bill would affect direct spending only
and two bills would affect both direct spending and spending sub-
ject to appropriation. CBO estimates that the effects of each bill on
direct spending would be insignificant over the 2023–2033 period.
The other bills would affect spending subject to appropriation
alone. None of the bills would affect revenues.
Bill that affects direct spending only: CBO estimates that just
one bill would have an insignificant effect on direct spending and
no effects on revenues or spending subject to appropriation.
H.R. 3317, the Rolling Stock Protection Act, would remove an ex-
emption from current law that allows a small number of public
transit agencies to procure rolling stock from entities owned, con-
trolled, or associated with certain countries. CBO estimates that
enacting the bill could change the pace of spending for amounts
previously appropriated for the Federal Transit Administration's
Capital Investment Grants, relative to current law. (Those amounts
could include funds that were designated as an emergency require-
ment under the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act.) However,
because few transit agencies would be affected, CBO expects that
any changes in spending would total less than $500,000 in any
year and over the 2023–2033 period.
Bills that affect direct spending and spending subject to appro-
priation: CBO estimates that two bills could have insignificant ef-
fects on direct spending and spending subject to appropriation but
would not affect revenues.
H.R. 3316, a bill to amend titles 46 and 49, United States Code,
to streamline the environmental review process for major projects,
and for other purposes, would require DOT to revise the permitting
process for certain port, airport, and pipeline projects, with the aim
of making the process more efficient. The bill also would require
DOT to maintain a database of projects and to update agency regu-
lations.
Under current law, if an agency fails to meet certain permitting
deadlines, specified amounts of funding would be rescinded from
that agency's account. Because the bill would expand the number
of projects subject to those conditions, enacting H.R. 3316 could re-
duce direct spending. CBO estimates that any effect would not be
significant over the 2023–2033 period because of the small number
of projects likely to be affected.
CBO estimates that implementing the bill would increase spend-
ing subject to appropriation by less than $500,000 over the 2023–
2028 period, mostly for administrative activities.
H.R. 3365, the Supply Chain Improvement Act, would direct
DOT to prioritize consideration of grant applications for projects
aimed at improving resiliency in the supply chain, unless those
projects support the use of electric vehicles. In particular, the re-
quirement would apply to grants under the Nationally Significant
Multimodal Freight and Highway Projects program (known as the
INFRA grant program) and the National Infrastructure Project As-
sistance program. The bill would increase the share of INFRA
grants that could be used for intermodal freight rail projects.
The Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act provided $21 billion
for those two programs over the 2022–2026 period. (The appro-
priated amounts were designated as an emergency requirement.)
CBO estimates that H.R. 3365 could alter the spending patterns for
those previously appropriated amounts, which would be recorded as
changes in direct spending. CBO estimates that, on net, those
changes would amount to less than $500,000 in any year and over
the 2023–2033 period.
H.R. 3365 also would direct the Government Accountability Of-
fice to report on the effects of electric vehicles in several areas, in-
cluding infrastructure integrity and grid security. The bill also
would prevent agencies from prioritizing any project seeking to use
grants that would support electric vehicles until a subsequent act
of Congress has been passed allowing such prioritization. Using in-
formation about similar reports, CBO estimates that the report
would cost less than $500,000 over the 2023–2028 period; such
spending would be subject to the availability of appropriated
amounts.
Bills that affect spending subject to appropriation by a signifi-
cant amount: CBO estimates that two bills would affect spending
subject to appropriation by more than $500,000 over the 2023–2028
period. The costs for those two bills are shown in Table 1. Neither
bill would affect direct spending or revenues.
H.R. 1500, the Intelligent Transportation Integration Act, would
require DOT to purchase certain data from public and private enti-
ties to help improve the department's management of traffic and
transportation infrastructure. DOT would be required to report to
the Congress annually on those activities. Using information from
the agency about similar contracting activities, CBO estimates that
implementing H.R. 1500 would cost $30 million over the 2023–2028
period, assuming appropriation of the estimated amounts.
H.R. 1836, the Ocean Shipping Reform Implementation Act of
2023, would create additional administrative and reporting require-
ments for the Federal Maritime Commission, including a require-
ment to issue two new regulations and publish a study. The bill
also would establish two advisory committees to assist the commis-
sion in creating policies to ensure competitiveness, reliability, and
efficiency in international ocean shipping.
Using information on similar administrative requirements and
accounting for anticipated inflation, CBO estimates that imple-
menting H.R. 1836 would cost $7 million over the 2023–2028 pe-
riod; any spending would be subject to the availability of appro-
priated amounts.
Bills that affect spending subject to appropriation by an insignifi-
cant amount: CBO estimates that implementing the following
seven bills would cost less than $500,000 each over the 2023–2028
period. None of the bills would affect direct spending or revenues.
H.R. 915, the Motor Carrier Safety Selection Standard Act,
would create new standards for certain motor carriers that trans-
port goods, require DOT to update regulations to be consistent with
those standards, and direct the department to stipulate the method
for revoking a motor carrier's registration.
H.R. 2948, the CARS Act, would require states to allow certain
stinger-steered automobile transporters to operate on Interstate
highways. (Such transporters have a fifth wheel located below the
rear-most axle of the power unit.)
H.R. 3013, the LICENSE Act of 2023, would require DOT to
issue regulations updating the qualifications to be a commercial
driver's license examiner. The bill also would allow states to ad-
minister those tests to out-of-state applicants.
H.R. 3318, a bill to amend title 23, United States Code, to estab-
lish an axle weight tolerance for certain commercial motor vehicles
transporting dry bulk goods, and for other purposes, would increase
the maximum weight per axle that a commercial vehicle trans-
porting dry bulk goods can carry on an Interstate highway. The bill
would not change the overall gross vehicle weight limits for such
vehicles.
H.R. 3372, a bill to amend title 23, United States Code, to estab-
lish a safety data collection program for certain 6-axle vehicles, and
for other purposes, would create a pilot program allowing certain
six-axle vehicles to be operated on Interstate highways. Under the
bill, participating states would issue permits by vehicle or by group
of vehicles that would specify acceptable routes and require permit
holders to report on accidents and other details. The program
would be discontinued after five years, although DOT could extend
the program for five years.
H.R. 3395, the U.S. Supply Chain Security Review Act of 2023,
would require the Federal Maritime Commission to study the ef-
fects of foreign ownership of domestic marine terminals on U.S.
economic security and report those findings to the Congress.
H.R. 3447, a bill to amend title 23, United States Code, to au-
thorize a hydrogen powered vehicle to exceed certain weight limits
on the Interstate Highway System, and for other purposes, would
authorize hydrogen-powered vehicles to exceed certain weight lim-
its specified under current law.
Pay-As-You-Go considerations: The Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act
of 2010 establishes budget-reporting and enforcement procedures
for legislation affecting direct spending or revenues. Over the
2023–2033 period, CBO estimates that none of the bills would in-
crease direct spending by more than $500,000.
Increase in long-term net direct spending and deficits: None.
Mandates: None.
Estimate prepared by: Federal Costs: Aaron Krupkin (for Federal
Maritime Commission); Robert Reese (for Department of Transpor-
tation). Mandates: Brandon Lever.
Estimate reviewed by: Susan Willie, Chief, Natural and Physical
Resources Cost Estimates Unit; Kathleen FitzGerald, Chief, Public
and Private Mandates Unit; H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy Director
of Budget Analysis.
Estimate approved by: Phillip L. Swagel, Director, Congressional
Budget Office.
PERFORMANCE GOALS AND OBJECTIVES
With respect to the requirement of clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII of
the Rules of the House of Representatives, the performance goal
and objective of this legislation is to provide efficient environmental
reviews for project decision-making and One Federal Decision for
port, pipeline safety, and airport and aviation projects.
DUPLICATION OF FEDERAL PROGRAMS
Pursuant to clause 3(c)(5) of rule XIII of the Rules of the House
of Representatives, the Committee finds that no provision of H.R.
3316 establishes or reauthorizes a program of the Federal govern-
ment known to be duplicative of another Federal program, a pro-
gram that was included in any report from the Government Ac-
countability Office to Congress pursuant to section 21 of Public
Law 111–139, or a program related to a program identified in the
most recent Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance.
CONGRESSIONAL EARMARKS, LIMITED TAX BENEFITS, AND LIMITED
TARIFF BENEFITS
In compliance with clause 9 of rule XXI of the Rules of the House
of Representatives, this bill, as reported, contains no congressional
earmarks, limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined
in clause 9(e), 9(f), or 9(g) of the rule XXI.
FEDERAL MANDATES STATEMENT
The Committee adopts as its own the estimate of Federal man-
dates prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office
pursuant to section 423 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act
(Public Law 104–4).
PREEMPTION CLARIFICATION
Section 423 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 requires the
report of any Committee on a bill or joint resolution to include a
statement on the extent to which the bill or joint resolution is in-
tended to preempt state, local, or tribal law. The Committee finds
that H.R. 3316 does not preempt any state, local, or tribal law.
ADVISORY COMMITTEE STATEMENT
No advisory committees within the meaning of section 5(b) of the
Federal Advisory Committee Act were created by this legislation.
APPLICABILITY TO LEGISLATIVE BRANCH
The Committee finds that the legislation does not relate to the
terms and conditions of employment or access to public services or
accommodations within the meaning of section 102(b)(3) of the Con-
gressional Accountability Act (Public Law 104–1).
SECTION-BY-SECTION ANALYSIS OF THE LEGISLATION
Section 1. One Federal decision for ports
This section amends 46 U.S.C. § 543 to include efficient environ-
mental reviews and one Federal decision, 23 U.S.C. § 139.
Section 2. One Federal decision for pipelines
This section amends 49 U.S.C. § 601 to include efficient environ-
mental reviews and one Federal decision, 23 U.S.C. § 139.
Section 3. One Federal decision for airports and aviation
This section amends 49 U.S.C. § 47171 to include efficient envi-
ronmental reviews and one Federal decision, 23 U.S.C. § 139.
Section 4. Efficient environmental reviews
This section amends 49 U.S.C. § 24204(a)(4) by striking "except
that the limitation on claims of 150 days shall be 2 years."
CHANGES IN EXISTING LAW MADE BY THE BILL, AS REPORTED
In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of the
House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by the bill,
as reported, are shown as follows (existing law proposed to be omit-
ted is enclosed in black brackets, new matter is printed in italic,
existing law in which no change is proposed is shown in roman):
CHANGES IN EXISTING LAW MADE BY THE BILL, AS REPORTED
In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of the
House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by the bill,
as reported, are shown as follows (existing law proposed to be omit-
ted is enclosed in black brackets, new matter is printed in italics,
and existing law in which no change is proposed is shown in
roman):
TITLE 46, UNITED STATES CODE
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
SUBTITLE V—MERCHANT MARINE
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
PART C—FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
CHAPTER 543—PORT INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT
PROGRAM
Sec.
54301. Port infrastructure development program.
54302. Efficient environmental reviews and one Federal decision.
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
§ 54302. Efficient environmental reviews and one Federal de-
cision
(a) EFFICIENT ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEWS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Transportation shall apply
the project development procedures, to the greatest extent fea-
sible, described in section 139 of title 23 to any port infrastruc-
ture project that requires the approval of the Secretary under
the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.).
(2) REGULATIONS AND PROCEDURES.—In carrying out para-
graph (1), the Secretary shall incorporate into agency regula-
tions and procedures pertaining to port infrastructure projects
described in paragraph (1) aspects of such project development
procedures, or portions thereof, determined appropriate by the
Secretary in a manner consistent with this section, that increase
the efficiency of the review of port infrastructure projects.
(3) DISCRETION.—The Secretary may choose not to incor-
porate into agency regulations and procedures pertaining to
port infrastructure projects described in paragraph (1) such
project development procedures that could only feasibly apply to
highway projects, public transportation capital projects, and
multimodal projects.
(4) APPLICABILITY.—Subsection (l) of section 139 of title 23
shall apply to port infrastructure projects described in para-
graph (1), except that the limitation on claims of 150 days shall
be 2 years.
(b) ADDITIONAL CATEGORICAL EXCLUSIONS.—The Secretary shall
maintain and make publicly available, including on the Internet, a
database that identifies project-specific information on the use of a
categorical exclusion on any port infrastructure project carried out
under this title.
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
TITLE 49, UNITED STATES CODE
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
SUBTITLE V—RAIL PROGRAMS
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
PART C—PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
CHAPTER 242—PROJECT DELIVERY
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
§ 24201. Efficient environmental reviews
(a) EFFICIENT ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEWS.—
(1) IN
GENERAL.—The Secretary of Transportation shall
apply the project development procedures, to the greatest ex-
tent feasible, described in section 139 of title 23 to any railroad
project that requires the approval of the Secretary under the
National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et
seq.).
(2) REGULATIONS AND PROCEDURES.—In carrying out para-
graph (1), the Secretary shall incorporate into agency regula-
tions and procedures pertaining to railroad projects described
in paragraph (1) aspects of such project development proce-
dures, or portions thereof, determined appropriate by the Sec-
retary in a manner consistent with this section, that increase
the efficiency of the review of railroad projects.
(3) DISCRETION.—The Secretary may choose not to incor-
porate into agency regulations and procedures pertaining to
railroad projects described in paragraph (1) such project devel-
opment procedures that could only feasibly apply to highway
projects, public transportation capital projects, and multimodal
projects.
(4) APPLICABILITY.—Subsection (l) of section 139 of title 23
shall apply to railroad projects described in paragraph (1)ø, ex-
cept that the limitation on claims of 150 days shall be 2
years¿.
(b) ADDITIONAL CATEGORICAL EXCLUSIONS.—Not later than 6
months after the date of enactment of the Passenger Rail Reform
and Investment Act of 2015, the Secretary shall—
(1) survey the use by the Federal Railroad Administration of
categorical exclusions in transportation projects since 2005;
and
(2) publish in the Federal Register for notice and public com-
ment a review of the survey that includes a description of—
(A) the types of actions categorically excluded; and
(B) any actions the Secretary is considering for new cat-
egorical exclusions, including those that would conform to
those of other modal administrations.
(c) NEW CATEGORICAL EXCLUSIONS.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of enactment of the Passenger Rail Reform and Invest-
ment Act of 2015, the Secretary shall publish a notice of proposed
rulemaking to propose new and existing categorical exclusions for
railroad projects that require the approval of the Secretary under
the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et
seq.), including those identified under subsection (b), and develop
a process for considering new categorical exclusions to the extent
that the categorical exclusions meet the criteria for a categorical
exclusion under section 1508.4 of title 40, Code of Federal Regula-
tions.
(d) TRANSPARENCY.—The Secretary shall maintain and make
publicly available, including on the Internet, a database that iden-
tifies project-specific information on the use of a categorical exclu-
sion on any railroad project carried out under this title.
(e) PROTECTIONS FOR EXISTING AGREEMENTS AND NEPA.—Noth-
ing in subtitle E of the Passenger Rail Reform and Investment Act
of 2015, or any amendment made by such subtitle, shall affect any
existing environmental review process, program, agreement, or
funding arrangement approved by the Secretary under title 49, as
that title was in effect on the day preceding the date of enactment
of such subtitle.
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
SUBTITLE VII—AVIATION PROGRAMS
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
PART B—AIRPORT DEVELOPMENT AND NOISE
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
CHAPTER 471—AIRPORT DEVELOPMENT
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
SUBCHAPTER III—AVIATION DEVELOPMENT
STREAMLINING
§ 47171. Expedited, coordinated environmental review proc-
ess
ø(a) AVIATION PROJECT REVIEW PROCESS.—The Secretary of
Transportation shall develop and implement an expedited and co-
ordinated environmental review process for airport capacity en-
hancement projects at congested airports, general aviation airport
construction or improvement projects, aviation safety projects, and
aviation security projects that—
ø(1) provides for better coordination among the Federal, re-
gional, State, and local agencies concerned with the prepara-
tion of environmental impact statements or environmental as-
sessments under the National Environmental Policy Act of
1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.);
ø(2) provides that all environmental reviews, analyses, opin-
ions, permits, licenses, and approvals that must be issued or
made by a Federal agency or airport sponsor for such a project
will be conducted concurrently, to the maximum extent prac-
ticable; and
ø(3) provides that any environmental review, analysis, opin-
ion, permit, license, or approval that must be issued or made
by a Federal agency or airport sponsor for such a project will
be completed within a time period established by the Sec-
retary, in cooperation with the agencies identified under sub-
section (d) with respect to the project.¿
(a) AVIATION
PROJECT
REVIEW
PROCESS.—The Secretary of
Transportation shall apply the project development procedures, to
the greatest extent feasible, described in section 139 of title 23 to any
airport or aviation project that requires the approval of the Sec-
retary under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42
U.S.C. 4321 et seq.).
(b) AVIATION PROJECTS SUBJECT TO A STREAMLINED ENVIRON-
MENTAL REVIEW PROCESS.—
(1) AIRPORT
CAPACITY
ENHANCEMENT
PROJECTS
AT
CON-
GESTED AIRPORTS.—An airport capacity enhancement project at
a congested airport shall be subject to the øcoordinated and ex-
pedited environmental review process requirements set forth in
this section¿ project development procedures described in sub-
section (a) .
(2) GENERAL AVIATION AIRPORT CONSTRUCTION OR IMPROVE-
MENT PROJECT.—A general aviation airport construction or im-
provement project shall be subject to the øcoordinated and ex-
pedited environmental review process requirements set forth in
this section¿ project development procedures described in sub-
section (a) .
(3) AVIATION SAFETY AND AVIATION SECURITY PROJECTS.—
(A) IN
GENERAL.—The Administrator of the Federal
Aviation Administration may designate an aviation safety
project or aviation security project for priority environ-
mental review. The Administrator may not delegate this
designation authority. A designated project shall be subject
to the øcoordinated and expedited environmental review
process requirements set forth in this section¿ project de-
velopment procedures described in subsection (a) .
(B) PROJECT DESIGNATION CRITERIA.—The Administrator
shall establish guidelines for the designation of an aviation
safety project or aviation security project for priority envi-
ronmental review. Such guidelines shall provide for consid-
eration of—
(i) the importance or urgency of the project;
(ii) the potential for undertaking the environmental
review under existing emergency procedures under the
National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C.
4321 et seq.);
(iii) the need for cooperation and concurrent reviews
by other Federal or State agencies;
(iv) the prospect for undue delay if the project is not
designated for priority review; and
(v) for aviation security projects, the views of the
Department of Homeland Security.
ø(c) HIGH PRIORITY OF AND AGENCY PARTICIPATION IN COORDI-
NATED REVIEWS.—
ø(1) HIGH
PRIORITY
FOR
ENVIRONMENTAL
REVIEWS.—Each
Federal agency with jurisdiction over an environmental review,
analysis, opinion, permit, license, or approval shall accord any
such review, analysis, opinion, permit, license, or approval in-
volving an airport capacity enhancement project at a congested
airport or a project designated under subsection (b)(3) the high-
est possible priority and conduct the review, analysis, opinion,
permit, license, or approval expeditiously.
ø(2) AGENCY PARTICIPATION.—Each Federal agency described
in subsection (d) shall formulate and implement administra-
tive, policy, and procedural mechanisms to enable the agency
to participate in the coordinated environmental review process
under this section and to ensure completion of environmental
reviews, analyses, opinions, permits, licenses, and approvals
described in subsection (a) in a timely and environmentally re-
sponsible manner.
ø(d) IDENTIFICATION OF JURISDICTIONAL AGENCIES.—With respect
to each airport capacity enhancement project at a congested airport
or a project designated under subsection (b)(3), the Secretary shall
identify, as soon as practicable, all Federal and State agencies that
may have jurisdiction over environmental-related matters that may
be affected by the project or may be required by law to conduct an
environmental-related review or analysis of the project or deter-
mine whether to issue an environmental-related permit, license, or
approval for the project.
ø(e) STATE AUTHORITY.—Under a coordinated review process
being implemented under this section by the Secretary with respect
to a project at an airport within the boundaries of a State, the Gov-
ernor of the State, consistent with State law, may choose to partici-
pate in such process and provide that all State agencies that have
jurisdiction over environmental-related matters that may be af-
fected by the project or may be required by law to conduct an envi-
ronmental-related review or analysis of the project or determine
whether to issue an environmental-related permit, license, or ap-
proval for the project, be subject to the process.
ø(f) MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING.—The coordinated review
process developed under this section may be incorporated into a
memorandum of understanding for a project between the Secretary
and the heads of other Federal and State agencies identified under
subsection (d) with respect to the project and, if applicable, the air-
port sponsor.
ø(g) USE OF INTERAGENCY ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT STATEMENT
TEAMS.—
ø(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may utilize an interagency
environmental impact statement team to expedite and coordi-
nate the coordinated environmental review process for a
project under this section. When utilizing an interagency envi-
ronmental impact statement team, the Secretary shall invite
Federal, State and Tribal agencies with jurisdiction by law,
and may invite such agencies with special expertise, to partici-
pate on an interagency environmental impact statement team.
ø(2) RESPONSIBILITY
OF
INTERAGENCY
ENVIRONMENTAL
IM-
PACT STATEMENT TEAM.—Under a coordinated environmental
review process being implemented under this section, the inter-
agency environmental impact statement team shall assist the
Federal Aviation Administration in the preparation of the envi-
ronmental impact statement. To facilitate timely and efficient
environmental review, the team shall agree on agency or Trib-
al points of contact, protocols for communication among agen-
cies, and deadlines for necessary actions by each individual
agency (including the review of environmental analyses, the
conduct of required consultation and coordination, and the
issuance of environmental opinions, licenses, permits, and ap-
provals). The members of the team may formalize their agree-
ment in a written memorandum.
ø(h) LEAD AGENCY RESPONSIBILITY.—The Federal Aviation Ad-
ministration shall be the lead agency for projects designated under
subsection (b)(3) and airport capacity enhancement projects at con-
gested airports and shall be responsible for defining the scope and
content of the environmental impact statement, consistent with
regulations issued by the Council on Environmental Quality. Any
other Federal agency or State agency that is participating in a co-
ordinated environmental review process under this section shall
give substantial deference, to the extent consistent with applicable
law and policy, to the aviation expertise of the Federal Aviation
Administration.
ø(i) EFFECT OF FAILURE TO MEET DEADLINE.—
ø(1) NOTIFICATION OF CONGRESS AND CEQ.— If the Secretary
determines that a Federal agency, State agency, or airport
sponsor that is participating in a coordinated review process
under this section with respect to a project has not met a dead-
line established under subsection (a)(3) for the project, the Sec-
retary shall notify, within 30 days of the date of such deter-
mination, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation of the Senate, the Committee on Transportation and In-
frastructure of the House of Representatives, the Council on
Environmental Quality, and the agency or sponsor involved
about the failure to meet the deadline.
ø(2) AGENCY REPORT.—Not later than 30 days after date of
receipt of a notice under paragraph (1), the agency or sponsor
involved shall submit a report to the Secretary, the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Rep-
resentatives, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Trans-
portation of the Senate, and the Council on Environmental
Quality explaining why the agency or sponsor did not meet the
deadline and what actions it intends to take to complete or
issue the required review, analysis, opinion, permit, license, or
approval.
ø(j) PURPOSE AND NEED.—For any environmental review, anal-
ysis, opinion, permit, license, or approval that must be issued or
made by a Federal or State agency that is participating in a coordi-
nated review process under this section and that requires an anal-
ysis of purpose and need for the project, the agency, notwith-
standing any other provision of law, shall be bound by the project
purpose and need as defined by the Secretary.
ø(k) ALTERNATIVES ANALYSIS.—The Secretary shall determine
the reasonable alternatives to an airport capacity enhancement
project at a congested airport or a project designated under sub-
section (b)(3). Any other Federal agency, or State agency that is
participating in a coordinated review process under this section
with respect to the project shall consider only those alternatives to
the project that the Secretary has determined are reasonable.
ø(l) SOLICITATION AND CONSIDERATION OF COMMENTS.—In apply-
ing subsections (j) and (k), the Secretary shall solicit and consider
comments from interested persons and governmental entities in ac-
cordance with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42
U.S.C. 4321 et seq.).
ø(m) MONITORING BY TASK FORCE.—The Transportation Infra-
structure Streamlining Task Force, established by Executive Order
13274 (67 Fed. Reg. 59449; relating to environmental stewardship
and transportation infrastructure project reviews), may monitor
airport projects that are subject to the coordinated review process
under this section.¿
(c) EFFICIENT ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEWS.—
(1) REGULATIONS
AND
PROCEDURES.—In carrying out sub-
section (a), the Secretary shall incorporate into agency regula-
tions and procedures pertaining to airport or aviation projects
described in subsection (b) aspects of such project development
procedures, or portions thereof, determined appropriate by the
Secretary in a manner consistent with this section, that increase
the efficiency of the review of such projects.
(2) DISCRETION.—The Secretary may choose not to incor-
porate into agency regulations and procedures pertaining to air-
port or aviation projects described in subsection (b) such project
development procedures that could only feasibly apply to high-
way projects, public transportation capital projects, and
multimodal projects.
(3) APPLICABILITY.—Subsection (l) of section 139 of title 23
shall apply to airport or aviation projects described in sub-
section (b).
(d) ADDITIONAL CATEGORICAL EXCLUSIONS.—The Secretary shall
maintain and make publicly available, including on the Internet, a
database that identifies project-specific information on the use of a
categorical exclusion on any airport or aviation project carried out
under this title.
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
SUBTITLE VIII—PIPELINES
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
CHAPTER 601—SAFETY
Sec.
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
60144. Efficient environmental reviews and one Federal decision.
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
§ 60144. Efficient environmental reviews and one Federal de-
cision
(a) EFFICIENT ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEWS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Transportation shall apply
the project development procedures, to the greatest extent fea-
sible, described in section 139 of title 23 to any pipeline project
that requires the approval of the Secretary under the National
Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.).
(2) REGULATIONS AND PROCEDURES.—In carrying out para-
graph (1), the Secretary shall incorporate into agency regula-
tions and procedures pertaining to pipeline projects described in
paragraph (1) aspects of such project development procedures,
or portions thereof, determined appropriate by the Secretary in
a manner consistent with this section, that increase the effi-
ciency of the review of pipeline projects.
(3) DISCRETION.—The Secretary may choose not to incor-
porate into agency regulations and procedures pertaining to
pipeline projects described in paragraph (1) such project devel-
opment procedures that could only feasibly apply to highway
projects, public transportation capital projects, and multimodal
projects.
(4) APPLICABILITY.—Subsection (l) of section 139 of title 23
shall apply to pipeline projects described in paragraph (1).
(b) ADDITIONAL CATEGORICAL EXCLUSIONS.—The Secretary shall
maintain and make publicly available, including on the Internet, a
database that identifies project-specific information on the use of a
categorical exclusion on any pipeline project carried out under this
title.
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
Æ