U.S. GOVERNMENT PUBLISHING OFFICE
WASHINGTON :
59–010
SENATE
"
!
118TH CONGRESS
2d Session
REPORT
118–289
Calendar No. 695
PREVENTING CHILD LABOR
EXPLOITATION ACT
R E P O R T
OF THE
COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY AND
GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS
UNITED STATES SENATE
TO ACCOMPANY
S. 3139
TO ENSURE THAT FEDERAL CONTRACTORS COMPLY WITH
CHILD LABOR LAWS, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES
DECEMBER 12, 2024.—Ordered to be printed
(II)
COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY AND GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS
GARY C. PETERS, Michigan, Chairman
THOMAS R. CARPER, Delaware
MAGGIE HASSAN, New Hampshire
KYRSTEN SINEMA, Arizona
JACKY ROSEN, Nevada
JON OSSOFF, Georgia
RICHARD BLUMENTHAL, Connecticut
ADAM SCHIFF, California
RAND PAUL, Kentucky
RON JOHNSON, Wisconsin
JAMES LANKFORD, Oklahoma
MITT ROMNEY, Utah
RICK SCOTT, Florida
JOSH HAWLEY, Missouri
ROGER MARSHALL, Kansas
DAVID M. WEINBERG, Staff Director
ALAN S. KAHN, Chief Counsel
MICHELLE M. BENECKE, Senior Counsel
TIFFANY ANN SHUJATH, U.S. Department of Homeland Security Detailee
WILLIAM E. HENDERSON III, Minority Staff Director
CHRISTINA N. SALAZAR, Minority Chief Counsel
ANDREW J. HOPKINS, Minority Counsel
KENDAL B. TIGNER, Minority Professional Staff Member
LAURA W. KILBRIDE, Chief Clerk
Calendar No. 695
118TH CONGRESS
REPORT
"
!
SENATE
2d Session
118–289
PREVENTING CHILD LABOR EXPLOITATION ACT
DECEMBER 12, 2024.—Ordered to be printed
Mr. PETERS, from the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs, submitted the following
R E P O R T
[To accompany S. 3139]
[Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]
The Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs,
to which was referred the bill (S. 3139) to ensure that Federal con-
tractors comply with child labor laws and for other purposes, hav-
ing considered the same, reports favorably thereon with an amend-
ment, in the nature of a substitute, and recommends that the bill,
as amended, do pass.
CONTENTS
Page
I. Purpose and Summary ..................................................................................
II. Background and Need for the Legislation ...................................................
III. Legislative History .........................................................................................
IV. Section-by-Section Analysis of the Bill, as Reported ..................................
V. Evaluation of Regulatory Impact ..................................................................
VI. Congressional Budget Office Cost Estimate ................................................
VII. Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported ...........................
I. PURPOSE AND SUMMARY
S. 3139, the Preventing Child Labor Exploitation in Federal Con-
tracting Act, would prohibit executive agencies from entering into
contracts with companies that have committed child labor law vio-
lations, as well as prohibit contracting with vendors that have in-
curred, and failed to rectify, child worker or labor infractions.
The bill requires any entity that enters into a contract with an
executive agency to disclose child labor and worker safety infrac-
tions incurred by the entity itself—as well as by any of its sub-
contractors or service providers—in the preceding three years, with
stiff penalties for failure to report. The bill empowers the Secretary
1 Department of Labor, Department of Labor, Interagency Task Force Announce Recent Actions
to Combat Exploitative Child Labor with New Partnerships, Innovative Tactics, Ramped Up En-
forcement (July 27. 2023) (https://www.dol.gov/newsroom/releases/osec/osec20230727).
2 Alone and Exploited, Migrant Children Work Brutal Jobs Across the U.S., New York Times
(Feb. 28, 2023) (https://www.nytimes.com/2023/02/25/us/unaccompanied-migrant-child-workers-
exploitation.html).
3 Department of Labor, More than 100 Children Illegally Employed in Hazardous Jobs, Fed-
eral Investigation Finds; Food Sanitation Contractor Pays $1.5M in Penalties (Feb. 17, 2023)
(https://www.dol.gov/newsroom/releases/whd/whd20230217-1).
4 The Kids on the Night Shift, New York Times (Sept. 18, 2023) (https://www.nytimes.com/
2023/09/18/magazine/child-labor-dangerous-jobs.html).
of Labor to determine corrective measures for a contractor to re-
main eligible for contracts with executive agencies. The bill re-
quires the Secretary of Labor to prepare a list of companies that
are ineligible for federal contracts for that year, based on violations
of child labor laws, and permits suspension and debarment pro-
ceedings for entities that have failed to complete corrective meas-
ures. The bill establishes transparency measures to ensure compli-
ance by executive agencies and the Department of Labor. Finally,
the bill creates a federal study on the prevalence and nature of
child labor law violations among federal contractors.
II. BACKGROUND AND NEED FOR THE LEGISLATION
Between 2018 and 2022, the U.S. Department of Labor found a
69% increase in children being employed illegally by companies in
the United States.1 Following the revelation of the use of illegal
child labor in processing plants, the New York Times published a
report exposing the extent to which employers in the food industry
have relied on child labor for the production of well-known brands,
often in unsafe conditions and in violation of federal labor laws.2
Multinational meatpackers contracted out dangerous work with
one of the nation's largest food safety sanitation services providers,
who has since paid $1.5 million in civil money penalties after the
Department of Labor's Wage and Hour Division found the company
illegally employed at least 102 children, as young as 13, in haz-
ardous occupations and working overnight shifts at 13 meat proc-
essing facilities in 8 states.3
Reporting from the New York Times has continued to expose
child labor exploitation by major corporations. Reported examples
include an eighth grader who was killed on the cleaning shift, a 14-
year-old who was hospitalized in Alabama after being overworked
at a chicken operation, a 17-year-old in Ohio who had his leg torn
off at the knee, a child who lost a hand in a meat grinder at a
Michigan operation, and a 14-year-old who was maimed while
working an overnight shift.4
The Preventing Child Labor Exploitation in Federal Contracting
Act aims to hold corporations accountable for child labor violations
by ensuring they do not have access to federal contract opportuni-
ties. The bill would prohibit executive agencies from contracting
with companies that have violated federal child labor laws or that
utilize subcontractors who have failed to address child labor infrac-
tions.
III. LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
Senator Cory Booker (D–NJ) introduced S. 3139, the Preventing
Child Labor Exploitation Act, on October 26, 2023, with original co-
sponsor Senator Josh Hawley (R–MO). The bill was referred to the
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
The Committee considered S. 3139 at a business meeting on
March 6, 2024. At the business meeting, Senator Peters offered a
substitute amendment, as well as a modification to the substitute
amendment. The Peters substitute amendment, as twice modified,
amends the bill's short title (from the "Preventing Child Labor Ex-
ploitation Act" to the "Preventing Child Labor Exploitation in Fed-
eral Contracting Act"); clarifies the process for how contractors,
subcontractors, or service providers with violations are referred to
the Secretary of Labor and are allowed a chance to take corrective
measures; clarifies that the Secretary of Labor would lead the re-
view of violations, negotiating corrective measures, and conducting
suspension and debarment proceedings to exclude vendors who do
not make corrections; and clarifies that there is due process and a
chance for a contractor, subcontractor, or service provider with vio-
lations to take corrective measures before being ineligible to work
on federal contracts. The Committee adopted the modification, and
the Peters substitute amendment as twice modified, by unanimous
consent, with Senators Peters, Hassan, Rosen, Ossoff, Blumenthal,
Butler, Paul, Johnson, Scott, Hawley, and Marshall present.
The bill, as amended by the Peters substitute amendment as
twice modified, was ordered reported favorably by a roll call vote
of 9 yeas to 2 nays, with Senators Peters, Hassan, Rosen, Ossoff,
Blumenthal, Butler, Scott, Hawley, and Marshal voting in the af-
firmative, and Senators Paul and Johnson voting in the negative.
Senators Carper, Sinema, Lankford, and Romney voted yea by
proxy, for the record only.
IV. SECTION-BY-SECTION ANALYSIS OF THE BILL, AS REPORTED
Section 1. Short title
Section 1 establishes the short title of the bill as the "Preventing
Child Labor Exploitation in Federal Contracting Act."
Section 2. Definitions
Section 2 defines "appropriate committees of Congress" and "ex-
ecutive agency."
Section 3. Promotion of workplace accountability
Subsection (a) requires the Federal Acquisition Regulatory Coun-
cil (FARC) to amend the Federal Acquisition Regulation within 18
months of enactment to comply with this subsection. Subsection
(a)(1) requires any entity which enters into a federal contract to an-
nually represent whether, within the preceding three-year period,
any final administrative merits determination, arbitral award or
decision, or civil judgment, has been issued against the entity for
violating section 12 of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938
(FLSA), relating to child labor.
Subsection (a)(2) requires an entity to certify when bidding on a
federal contract whether, within the preceding three-year period,
any final administrative merits determination, arbitral award or
decision, or civil judgment, has been issued against the entity for
a violation described in (a)(1). It also requires the entity to provide
such certification for any subcontractor or service provider intended
to be used in performing the contract.
Subsection (a)(3) prohibits executive agencies from awarding a
contract to an entity that provides an affirmative response to the
annual representation in (a)(1) and has failed to complete correc-
tive measures under subsection (b). It also prohibits executive
agencies from awarding a contract to an entity that provides an af-
firmative response to a certification in (a)(2) or intends to use a
subcontractor or service provider identified as having violations in
an affirmative response, if those entities have also failed to com-
plete corrective measures.
Subsection (a)(4) requires the name and address of each entity
that provides an affirmative response in (a)(1) or (a)(2) to be re-
ferred to the Secretary of Labor for the purposes of negotiating cor-
rective measures under subsection (b) and preparing the list and
conducting suspension and debarment proceedings under sub-
section (c).
Subsection (a)(5) provides procedures for entities to consult with
the Secretary of Labor to assist entities with compliance regarding
section 12 of the FLSA, relating to child labor. Subsection (a)(6) al-
lows the FARC to make any other necessary changes to implement
the Act's requirements.
Subsection (b) requires an entity that provides an affirmative re-
sponse under subsection (a) to update its representation or certifi-
cation, based on steps taken to correct violations of or improve com-
pliance with section 12 of the FLSA, relating to child labor. It also
allows entities to negotiate with the Secretary of Labor regarding
corrective measures they may take to avoid being placed on the list
and referred for suspension and debarment proceedings under sub-
section (c).
Subsection (c) requires the Secretary of Labor, within two years
of enactment, to annually prepare a list and conduct suspension
and debarment proceedings for each entity that has provided an af-
firmative response under subsection (a) and that has failed to com-
plete any corrective measures negotiated under subsection (b) for
the year of the list. Executive agencies are prohibited from solic-
iting offers from, awarding contracts to, or consenting to sub-
contracts with, any entity that appears on the list and is listed as
an active exclusion in the System for Award Management (SAM).
This prohibition applies for a minimum period of 4 years after the
entity is listed as an exclusion in SAM.
Subsection (d) makes it unlawful for a person to knowingly fail
to make a representation or certification in (a)(1) or (a)(2), respec-
tively. Violations of this subsection are subject to referral for sus-
pension and debarment and False Claims Act damages.
Subsection (e) requires the Secretary of Labor to, within two
years of enactment, annually submit a report to the appropriate
committees of Congress and make publicly available a report on
the number of entities appearing on the Secretary's list, the num-
ber of entities that agreed to take corrective measures, the amount
of the applicable contracts for the relevant entities, and the effec-
tiveness of the implementation of this Act.
Section 4. GAO study
Section 4 requires the Comptroller General to report on the prev-
alence of violations of section 12 of the FLSA (relating to child
labor) among federal contractors and submit the report to appro-
priate committees of Congress within two years of enactment.
Section 5. Use of civil penalties collected for child labor law viola-
tions
Section 5 amends the FLSA to allow the Department of Labor to
use civil penalties collected for violations of section 12 of the FLSA
(relating to child labor), to support the Department's work deter-
mining, and collecting penalties for, child labor law violations.
Section 6. No additional funds
Section 6 states that no additional funds are authorized to be ap-
propriated for the purpose of carrying out the Act.
V. EVALUATION OF REGULATORY IMPACT
Pursuant to the requirements of paragraph 11(b) of rule XXVI of
the Standing Rules of the Senate, the Committee has considered
the regulatory impact of this bill and determined that the bill will
have no regulatory impact within the meaning of the rules. The
Committee agrees with the Congressional Budget Office's state-
ment that the bill contains no intergovernmental or private-sector
mandates as defined in the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act
(UMRA) and would impose no costs on state, local, or tribal govern-
ments.
VI. CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE COST ESTIMATE
The bill would:
to spend certain civil monetary penalties without further ap-
propriation
that have violated the child labor provisions of the FairLabor
Standards Act (FLSA) and failed to take corrective action
report on child labor violations
Estimated budgetary effects would mainly stem from:
the FSLA's child labor provisions
officers
federal agencies
Bill Summary: S. 3139 would prohibit federal agencies from con-
tracting with entities that have violated the child labor provisions
of the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) and have failed to take
corrective action. The bill also would allow the Department of
Labor (DOL) to spend, without further appropriation, civil mone-
tary penalties collected for such violations. Finally, the bill would
require DOL and the Government Accountability Office to report
on federal contractors' violations of child labor laws.
Estimated Federal cost: The estimated budgetary effect of S.
3139 is shown in Table 1. The costs of the legislation fall within
all budget functions except function 900 (net interest) and 950 (un-
distributed offsetting receipts).
TABLE 1.—ESTIMATED BUDGETARY EFFECTS OF S. 3139
By fiscal year, millions of dollars—
2024–
2024–
INCREASES IN DIRECT SPENDING
Estimated Budget:
Authority .................................
Estimated Outlays ..................
INCREASES IN REVENUES
Estimated Revenues ..............
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
NET INCREASE IN THE DEFICIT FROM CHANGES IN DIRECT SPENDING AND REVENUES
Effect on the Deficit ..............
INCREASES IN SPENDING SUBJECT TO APPROPRIATION
Estimated Authorization ........
*
*
*
*
n.e.
n.e.
n.e.
n.e.
n.e.
n.e.
Estimated Outlays ..................
*
*
n.e.
n.e.
n.e.
n.e.
n.e.
n.e.
n.e. = not estimated; * = between zero and $500,000.
Basis of estimate: For this estimate, CBO assumes that S. 3139
will be enacted near the end of fiscal year 2024. Estimates of out-
lays are based on historical spending patterns for existing or simi-
lar programs.
Direct spending: Other than for child labor provisions, current
law provides DOL with the authority to retain any penalties col-
lected for violations of the FLSA and to spend them, without fur-
ther appropriation, on enforcement activities. S.3139 would extend
that authority to include violations of child labor provisions. CBO
estimates that over the 2024–2034 period, DOL would collect $48
million in civil monetary penalties for those violations and, based
on historical spending patterns, that the department would spend
$42 million of those collections over the same period.
Revenues: S. 3139 would require any entity that enters into a
contract with an executive agency to disclose recent child labor vio-
lations. Violations of that new disclosure requirement would be
subject to penalties under the False Claims Act. CBO expects that
most entities would comply with the new requirements and esti-
mates that any additional penalties collected over the 2024–2034
period would not be significant.
Spending subject to appropriation: S. 3139 would require federal
contracting officers to consider entities' outstanding or corrected
child labor violations before awarding contracts. CBO expects that
those officers would need additional information from DOL on out-
standing or corrected child labor violations, and training on compli-
ance with the bill's provisions. In addition, the bill would require
DOL to make annual reports to the Congress and would require
the Government Accountability Office to conduct a study on the
prevalence of child labor violations. Using information from DOL
and the Federal Acquisition Regulatory Council, CBO estimates
that complying with the bill's contracting and reporting require-
ments would cost federal agencies $5 million over the 2024–2029
period. Any spending on those activities would be subject to the
availability of appropriated funds.
Pay-As-You-Go considerations: The Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act
of 2010 establishes budget-reporting and enforcement procedures
for legislation affecting direct spending or revenues. The net
changes in outlays and revenues that are subject to those pay-as-
you-go procedures are shown in Table 2.
Increase in long-term net direct spending and deficits: CBO esti-
mates that enacting S. 3139 would not increase net direct spending
by more than $2.5 billion in any of the four consecutive 10-year pe-
riods beginning in 2035.
TABLE 2.—CBO's ESTIMATE OF THE STATUTORY PAY-AS-YOU-GO EFFECTS OF S. 3139, THE PRE-
VENTING CHILD LABOR EXPLOITATION ACT, AS ORDERED REPORTED BY THE SENATE COM-
MITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY AND GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS ON MARCH 6, 2024
By fiscal year, millions of dollars—
2024–
2024–
NET INCREASE IN THE DEFICIT
Pay-As-You-Go Effect ......................
Mandates: The bill contains no intergovernmental or private-sec-
tor mandates as defined in the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act.
Estimate prepared by: Federal Costs: Meredith Decker, Man-
dates: Andrew Laughlin.
Estimate reviewed by: Elizabeth Cove Delisle, Chief, Income Se-
curity Cost Estimates Unit; Joshua Shakin Chief, Revenue Projec-
tions Unit; Kathleen FitzGerald, Chief, Public and Private Man-
dates Unit; Christina Hawley Anthony, Deputy Director of Budget
Analysis.
Estimate approved by: Phillip L. Swagel, Director, Congressional
Budget Office.
VII. CHANGES IN EXISTING LAW MADE BY THE BILL, AS REPORTED
In compliance with paragraph 12 of rule XXVI of the Standing
Rules of the Senate, changes in existing law made by the bill, as
reported, are shown as follows (existing law proposed to be omitted
is enclosed in brackets, new matter is printed in italic, and existing
law in which no change is proposed is shown in roman):CBO Cost
Estimate Page 2
S. 3139, as ordered reported by the Senate Committee on Home-
land Security and Governmental Affairs
UNITED STATES CODE
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
TITLE 29—LABOR
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
CHAPTER 8—FAIR LABOR STANDARDS
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
SEC. 216. PENALTIES.
(a) * * *
(b) * * *
(c) * * *
(d) * * *
(e) CIVIL PENALTIES FOR CERTAIN VIOLATIONS.—
(1) * * *
(2) * * *
(3) * * *
(4) * * *
(5) øExcept for civil penalties collected for violations of section
212 of this title, sums¿ Sums collected as penalties pursuant
to this section shall be applied toward reimbursement of the
costs of determining the violations and assessing and collecting
such penalties, in accordance with the provisions of section 9a
of this title. øCivil penalties collected for violations of section
212 of this title shall be deposited in the general fund of the
Treasury.¿
Æ